README.md, before:

# About this Fork

This is a fork of https://github.com/janjagusch/youtube-to-anki that adds some additional functionality like screenshots, and buffering the audio files.

I might add getting a secondary language transcript and setting default languages.

# youtube-to-anki

Converts a YouTube video into Anki Cards.

Takes a YouTube video with audio in your target language and transcript (subtitles) in your native language and converts it into an `.apkg` file that can easily be imported into Anki. The Anki cards have the target language audio on the front and the native language transcript on the back. I hope this helps improving your listening comprehension.

## Installation

### `conda`

The preferred way to install this package is using [conda](https://github.com/conda/conda):

```
conda install youtube-to-anki
```

### `pip`

You can also install it through pip:

```
pip install youtube-to-anki
```

However, when you install this package though `pip`, you will have to manually install [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) afterwards.

## Usage

### CLI

You can use the command like interface like this:

```
youtube-to-anki <video_id>
```

Where `<video_id>` can be extracted from a YouTube URL like this:

`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=<video_id>`

There are some CLI options you can provide, for example for choosing the transcript language. Check `youtube-to-anki --help` for details.

## Importing to Anki

youtube-to-anki produces an `.apkg` file, which can easily be imported into Anki. In Anki, just click "File" -> "Import".

## Listing Available Transcripts

youtube-to-anki calls [youtube-transcript-api](https://github.com/jdepoix/youtube-transcript-api) for requesting the video transcripts. If you're unsure what value to provide to the `--transcript-language` option, you can list all available languages with `youtube_transcript_api --list-transcripts <video_id>`.

## Good Example Videos

- 🇯🇵: [Yuzuhiko's Cat Hands EP 280 | Atashin'chi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uw6ONSGyWZ4)
- 🇩🇪: [Nicos Weg – A1 – Folge 3: Tschüss!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idFrq0H1Af0) (here you'll have to set `--transcript-language de`)

## FAQ

### Video IDs Starting with `-`

If your video ID starts with an `-`, e.g. `-qAuGimugds` the CLI will try to parse this as an option, which can result in strange errors like this:

```
youtube-to-anki --transcript-language=de -qAuGimugds
Usage: youtube-to-anki [OPTIONS] VIDEO_ID
Try 'youtube-to-anki --help' for help.

Error: no such option: -q
```

Instead you will have to separate the CLI options and the video ID with a `--` like this:

```
youtube-to-anki --transcript-language de -- -qAuGimugds
```

Commit message:

version upgrade, local development README update

README.md, after:

# About this Fork

This is a fork of https://github.com/janjagusch/youtube-to-anki that adds some additional functionality like screenshots, and buffering the audio files.

I might add getting a secondary language transcript and setting default languages.

# youtube-to-anki

Converts a YouTube video into Anki Cards.

Takes a YouTube video with audio in your target language and transcript (subtitles) in your native language and converts it into an `.apkg` file that can easily be imported into Anki. The Anki cards have the target language audio on the front and the native language transcript on the back. I hope this helps improving your listening comprehension.

## Installation

### `conda`

The preferred way to install this package is using [conda](https://github.com/conda/conda):

```
conda install youtube-to-anki
```

### `pip`

You can also install it through pip:

```
pip install youtube-to-anki
```

However, when you install this package though `pip`, you will have to manually install [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) afterwards.

## Usage

### CLI

You can use the command like interface like this:

```
youtube-to-anki <video_id>
```

Where `<video_id>` can be extracted from a YouTube URL like this:

`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=<video_id>`

There are some CLI options you can provide, for example for choosing the transcript language. Check `youtube-to-anki --help` for details.

## Importing to Anki

youtube-to-anki produces an `.apkg` file, which can easily be imported into Anki. In Anki, just click "File" -> "Import".

## Listing Available Transcripts

youtube-to-anki calls [youtube-transcript-api](https://github.com/jdepoix/youtube-transcript-api) for requesting the video transcripts. If you're unsure what value to provide to the `--transcript-language` option, you can list all available languages with `youtube_transcript_api --list-transcripts <video_id>`.

## Local development
Create a venv folder in root, tell poetry to use it & install dependencies
```bash
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
poetry install
```
then you can run the script locally
```bash
python3 -m youtube_to_anki.main 0LIKGzlXoqo -L zh-TW -B 300
```

## Good Example Videos

- 🇯🇵: [Yuzuhiko's Cat Hands EP 280 | Atashin'chi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uw6ONSGyWZ4)
- 🇩🇪: [Nicos Weg – A1 – Folge 3: Tschüss!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idFrq0H1Af0) (here you'll have to set `--transcript-language de`)

## FAQ

### Video IDs Starting with `-`

If your video ID starts with an `-`, e.g. `-qAuGimugds` the CLI will try to parse this as an option, which can result in strange errors like this:

```
youtube-to-anki --transcript-language=de -qAuGimugds
Usage: youtube-to-anki [OPTIONS] VIDEO_ID
Try 'youtube-to-anki --help' for help.

Error: no such option: -q
```

Instead you will have to separate the CLI options and the video ID with a `--` like this:

```
youtube-to-anki --transcript-language de -- -qAuGimugds
```
